LaTeX Bundle : datatool v2.21 

Last Modified : 2014-03-08

Author        : Nicola Talbot

Package FAQ   : http://www.dickimaw-books.com/faqs/datatoolfaq.html

This bundle consists of the packages: datatool.sty, 
datatool-base.sty, datatool-fp.sty, datatool-pgfmath.sty,
databar.sty, databib.sty, datapie.sty dataplot.sty, datagidx.sty
person.sty.

datatool.sty:

 Databases can be created using LaTeX commands or loaded
 from external ASCII files, such as comma or tab separated
 variable files.

 Databases can be sorted numerically or alphabetically
 (descending or ascending.)

 Repetitive operations can be performed on each row of
 data in a database (such as mail merging.) Conditions
 can be imposed to exclude rows.

datatool-base.sty:

 Commands are provided to determine if an argument is
 an integer, a real number, currency or a string.
 (Scientific notation is currently not supported.)

 Locale dependent number settings are supported 
 (such as a comma as a decimal character and full stop as 
 a number group character.)

 Commands are provided to convert between locale dependent
 numbers/currency and the standard decimal format required 
 by the fp or pgfmath packages enabling fixed point arithmetic to be 
 performed on elements of the database.

 Strings can be tested to determine if they are all upper
 or all lower case.

 Names can be converted to initials using \DTLinitials.

datatool-fp.sty:
 Provides an interface with fp.sty

datatool-pgfmath.sty:
 Provides an interface with pgfmath.sty

datapie.sty:

 A database defined by datatool.sty can be converted into a 
 pie chart.

 Segments can be separated from the rest of the chart to make
 them stand out.

 Colour/grey scale options.

 Predefined segment colours can be changed.

 Hooks provided to annotate chart.

dataplot.sty:

 A database defined by datatool.sty may be plotted as a 2D
 scatter or line plot

 Settings provided to govern the appearance of the chart.
 (e.g. show/hide axes, legend, grid, major/minor tick marks.)

 Hooks provided to add extra information to the plot

databar.sty:

 A database defined by datatool.sty can be converted into a 
 bar chart.

 Colour/grey scale options.

 Predefined bar colours can be changed.

 Horizontal or vertical formats provided.

 Hooks provided to annotate chart.

databib.sty:

 Provides commands to convert a BibTeX database into a datatool
 database.

datagidx.sty:

 Provides a way of indexing or creating glossaries/lists of acronyms
 that uses TeX to do the sorting and collating instead of using an
 external indexing application, such as xindy or makeindex.

person.sty:

 Provides commands to display a person's name and pronoun in an
 order of service style document to provide consistency, or in mail
 merging to eliminate the cumbersome use of ``he/she'' etc.

*The datatool bundle replaces the csvtools bundle which is now obsolete.*

REQUIRED PACKAGES:

The datatool.sty and datatool-base.sty packages requires the following packages/files:

xkeyval
ifthen
xfor
substr (at least 2009/10/20)
etex
etoolbox
amsmath

The datatool-fp package requires fp.sty
The datatool-pgfmath package requires pgfmath.sty

The datapie.sty, dataplot.sty and databar.sty packages 
additionally require the tikz/pgf bundle.

*Remember to refresh TeX's database*

The package and documentation source code is also supplied as a
dtx and ins file located in texmf/source.

This material is subject to the LaTeX Project Public License. 
See http://www.ctan.org/license/lppl1.3 for the details of that license.

http://www.dickimaw-books.com/

